Question 5.3.10. Question 10. Inverse Functions.
A function is defined by f(x) equals x to the 3 plus x - 8.
Use technology to sketch y equals f(x).
Enter x to the 3 plus x - 8 in Y equals on the TI-84.
Key features: y-intercept at (0. negative
8). x-intercept at approximately (1.79. 0).
Cubic curve passing through (0. negative 8) and (1.79. 0).
Sketch y equals f inverse(x) on the same axis.
Reflect in y equals x.
(0. negative 8) maps to (-8. 0) and (1.79. 0) maps to (0. 1.79).
Reflected cubic through (-8. 0) and (0. 1.79).
Solve f(x) equals f inverse(x).
Key insight: f(x) equals f inverse(x) occurs where the graphs
intersect. which must lie on the line y equals x.
So solve f(x) equals x: x to the 3 plus x - 8 equals x
x to the 3 equals 8
x equals 2
f(x) equals f inverse(x) when x equals 2. Point: (2. 2).
IB exam tip: f(x) equals f inverse(x) . therefore. solve f(x)
equals x. This trick saves huge amounts of time in exams!